README.md, before:

jsonextra
=====
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/den4uk/jsonextra.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/den4uk/jsonextra)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/den4uk/jsonextra/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/den4uk/jsonextra)
[![PyPI Version](http://img.shields.io/pypi/v/jsonextra.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/jsonextra)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/pypi/l/jsonextra.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/jsonextra)

_is same as `json` library but with extra support for `uuid` and `datetime` data classes_

## Installation

```
$ pip install jsonextra
```


## Usage

Use just like `json` as normal once imported, but with addition of extra data classes.

```python
import uuid, datetime  # for creation of `my_data` object
import jsonextra

my_data = {'id': uuid.uuid4(), 'created': datetime.date.today()}
# my_data --> {'id': uuid.UUID('5f7660c5-88ea-46b6-93e2-860d5b7a0271'), 'created': datetime.date(2019, 6, 16)}

# Serializes the key values to stringified versions
my_json = jsonextra.dumps(my_data)
# my_json --> '{"id": "5f7660c5-88ea-46b6-93e2-860d5b7a0271", "created": "2019-06-16"}'

# Deserializes the object and confirms the output matches `my_data`
assert jsonextra.loads(my_json) == my_data  # True
```


##### `.dump(obj, fp, **kwargs)` & `.dumps(obj, **kwargs)`
Will seriaze extra data classes into their string representations (`__str__`).


##### `.load(fp, **kwargs)` & `.loads(s, **kwargs)`
Will deseriaze any stings, which match patterns of extra supported data classes. For example, if something looks like a _uuid_ - it will be converted to `uuid.UUID`.
If this behaviour is undesired, please use built-in `json.loads` method instead of `jsonextra.loads`.



## Supported extra data classes

- `datetime.date`
- `datetime.datetime`
- `uuid.UUID`

Commit message:

added support for iso8601 date format

README.md, after:

jsonextra
=====
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/den4uk/jsonextra.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/den4uk/jsonextra)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/den4uk/jsonextra/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/den4uk/jsonextra)
[![PyPI Version](http://img.shields.io/pypi/v/jsonextra.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/jsonextra)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/pypi/l/jsonextra.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/jsonextra)

_is same as `json` library but with extra support for `uuid` and `datetime` data classes_

## Installation

```
$ pip install jsonextra
```


## Usage

Use just like `json` as normal once imported, but with addition of extra data classes.

```python
import uuid, datetime  # for creation of `my_data` object
import jsonextra

my_data = {'id': uuid.uuid4(), 'created': datetime.date.today()}
# my_data --> {'id': uuid.UUID('5f7660c5-88ea-46b6-93e2-860d5b7a0271'), 'created': datetime.date(2019, 6, 16)}

# Serializes the key values to stringified versions
my_json = jsonextra.dumps(my_data)
# my_json --> '{"id": "5f7660c5-88ea-46b6-93e2-860d5b7a0271", "created": "2019-06-16"}'

# Deserializes the object and confirms the output matches `my_data`
assert jsonextra.loads(my_json) == my_data  # True
```


##### `.dump(obj, fp, **kwargs)` & `.dumps(obj, **kwargs)`
Will seriaze extra data classes into their string representations (`__str__`).
Note: for _datetime_ objects, the `__str__` is dumped to an ISO8601-like format: `yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS`, and it is the same format that will be expected by `.loads` method.


##### `.load(fp, **kwargs)` & `.loads(s, **kwargs)`
Will deseriaze any stings, which match patterns of extra supported data classes. For example, if something looks like a _uuid_ - it will be converted to `uuid.UUID`.
If this behaviour is undesired, please use built-in `json.loads` method instead of `jsonextra.loads`.



## Supported extra data classes

- `datetime.date`
- `datetime.datetime`
- `uuid.UUID`
